## 4. Open Source and Repo Setup Reflection

- Explain how to create a repository on GitHub and clone the repository to your local computer to a non-technical person.
- Describe what open source means.
- What do you think about Open Source? Does it make you nervous or protective? Does it feel like utopia?
- Assess the importance of using licenses.
- What concepts were solidified in the challenge? Did you have any "aha" moments? What did you struggle with?
- Did you find any resources on your own that helped you better understand a topic? If so, please list it.

- To create a repository you must first be logged into your GitHub account. In the top right navigation bar by your avatar profile picture there is a "+" sign to click that says "new repository".  Once on the new repo page there should be a 'repository name' field right next to the 'owner' field.  Here you can designate a name of your choosing that is hopefully relatively short and easy to remember. Below that criteria you are also able to write a description of the repo, such as it's content/purpose. You can also add a proprietary license  and choose the repo to be 'private' or 'public', but choose the latter if you want others to view your work. Now you can hit "create repository" and you know have a location on GitHub to submit and view your work!

  Now that you have a repo there should be a field in the bottom right of your page where you have the option to copy the URL of said page.  Hit that button so you can now clone the repo to your local computer.  Go to your terminal and navigate to the directory of your choosing using command line language such as 'cd'.  Once you are located in the folder where you want to clone the page by entering 'git clone {copied URL}' into the terminal and hit enter.  You should now have a local copy on your computer and a remote one still on your GitHub repo! You are done.

 -  Open source refers to software that can be freely used, altered, and shared by anyone in the programming community and beyond.  In this sense the source code is available for modification by its user if it is licensed that way; some licesnsing will prevent open source material from being doctored, but rather will just allow universal use of the product.  Open source code projects are meant to be a collaborative effort within the community where individuals improve and utilize the source code to their liking, and then submit their changes back to the source for everyone to see.  Hence the beauty that is GitHub.

 -  Personally I largely believe in the inteded ethos of 'open source'. I find beauty in the collaborative sharing of ideas and the ingenuity that people come up with they share work together on such forums. Even if I don't like someone's process of idea in open source projects, I think it will be an invaluable opportunity to gain perspective and see points of view I may not necessarily understand or yet have the foresight to see the potential.  I am probably a bit cautiously optimistic with the idea of 'open source' because I see the potential for proprietary disputes that could arise from the free-sharing of intellectual property.  

 -  Open Source licenses allow such software projects to be freely used, modified, and shared.  Though copyright of code is automatic in the US, the licensing of such intellecutal prooperty allows others to help you in the event of a problem (someone claiming your work as their own).  When you license you still retain the original copyright, you are only allowing special permission for use of that work.  Licensing takes away a lot of the problems in open source projects if you were just to distribute your code to the public, or if you granted permission on a case-to-case basis. With the former you give up your copyright, and anyone can claim the maste work as their own and with the latter you would be constantly be bogged down with usage requests.  You can think of open-source licenses like a library card; Anyone can enter the library, and with the card you are granted the ability to check out the books and learn from them like everyone as well.

 -  This challenge seemed to be the culmination of all prior skills learned until now: creating/cloning a repo, utilizing the command line, licensing work (and its importance) committing and pushing requests from git to GitHub.  I seem to perpetually have more A-HA moments as I just get more comfortable performing this individual processes without having to reference instructional material. One roadblock I did have earlier was with implementation and deleting branches; I wasn't entirely sure what the protocol was to do this, as I had problems deleting one, but after doing some research I figured it out. I also had trouble at the end with this task: "download the reflection file link and move it into the week-1 directory of your phase-0 repo using only the command line" For some reason I was having trouble copy it over and I am still a little shaky on this; not sure why it was moving over..

-  With my aforementioned problems such as figuring out 'branches' I looked at websites such as skillcrush and ones like this:
http://www.gitguys.com/topics/creating-and-playing-with-branches/
I also referenced the Open Source Initiative website because I was further curious on licensing rights. their benefits, and implementation.  I would definitely read about these more in depth later.
